---
layout: post
title:  "Closer to a Product"
date:   2016-06-12 21:00:20 -0300
---

[Link of the game](http://gamejolt.com/games/element-rampage/138566)

The title of this entry..., it's because i'm close for an initial release for the game (apart of uploading it as i progress with it, now I think that it's almost done for a release). So, there's some details in the gameplay to make, but them are a few.

Now, the improvements of this week:

### Putting elements on the map
* A very important part of the game, is that every play, has a large randomized map that the player has to discover. Now, the map splits in 6 sections, of 22x22 tiles (every tile 32 pixels). Some quantity of enemies are spawned in the map, and on the opposite side, there is a boss waiting for the player. So, this factor, gives the game a more attractive feel of exploring.

### Boss Battle
* The boss battle for now, it's an enemy that only teleports. This is a little hard to catch him without practice, but playing more, the player will be capable of dealing damage to the boss. Killing the boss, open a portal to the next level.

### Levels
* As said before, a portal will be opened when killing the boss. Going to the portal, starts a new level, but with a different map!. For now, the spawn of the enemies remains the same, but the map always changes from one level to another (the cellular procedure that was initially used, now it's putted before starting a new level, making every reset to the level, a different map).

### Music
* Now, the bug of the music that I had before, is now fixed!. Also, discovering Events on Phaser (doing a function when some variable it's changed, or things like that) Opens a lot of new possibilities to do with future games. In this particular game, I used event to play the boss battle music, and mute the level music. 

### Future Improvements
* This part of the post will be larger, because now that the gameplay it's almost complete (only missing some spawning intelligence when changing levels), some details could be done to improve the Player experience on the Game.

#### Chests
* Now that it's a more intelligent method to put thing on the map, better than only randomizing the position in the entire map, the chests can be putted on the game. The chest will have some items, to support the player during the game. They can have Health, another enemy, or other types of items (defined in a next release).

#### More enemy types
* For now, there is an default enemy type on the game, that the difficulty has been reduced. But, there will be 2 more types of enemies, one of them, easier than the default ones. And another, more difficult (similar to the first implementation of enemies, so harder to kill). The amount, and frequency of this type of enemies, are going to change depending of the level that the player is.

#### Interactive Tutorial
* The text tutorial will be removed, and instead, an optional interactive tutorial will be used to guide new players to the game. It will have instructions during a first play, that it's going to cover all the controls of the game, so the player will understand in a better way, how to play the game.

### Bugs

* Some enemies are spawned up to the screen. But it doesn't affect the gameplay. (The player can win extra experience killing this ones)
* Using the cellular procedure making maps, can make the player with no an possible exit when starting the level, so the game must me restarted.
* The boss battle is incomplete. More AI has to be implemented on the enemy. 


### Other things to develop

* Enemies can have the ability of shooting themselves.

